Finding a matching professor to conduct exciting research might have been the first obstacle for students working towards their Phd. Students have to search intensively to gather information about different schools, departments and programs. I propose to build a database to make information more accessible to students who are looking for an advisor to work with in the Human Computer Interaction field. The database will capture the top 10 schools around the world that are famous for their research in HCI, and enables end users to browse and acquire information within this scope. 


The main entity sets are schools, departments, labs, graduate students and professors. Since the main focus of this project is building the database, I’ll search online to come up with 10 schools and assume they are the top 10 in HCI to get started. Each school has a set of attributes to describe it and the primary key is the school’s name. Among schools, there may be joint departments. Only the ones doing HCI research are included in this database. And, it’s based on a collaboration between two schools. The joint departments always have names that indicate two schools and the name of the department such as “NC State and UNC Chapel Hill Joint Biomedical Engineering Department”. The first school name in the joint department name is defined as school A, and the second one is defined as school B. The full name is the primary key for joint departments. Besides joint departments, there’s an entity named department to capture information about departments that conduct HCI related research. The primary key is the domain name of the department. For instance, “cs.uchicago.edu” gives information about the department and the school it belongs to. Thus, they are the primary key. Departments host labs, and every lab has to be part of at least one department. It’s possible for labs to be part of multiple departments. Among the labs, there can be collaboration relationships between two labs. Within this relationship, there’s always a primary lab that does more work than the other, which is defined as secondary. Most importantly, there is a professor entity that contains information about professors who are PI of one of the labs described before or belong to the department. The relationship is many to many since departments can have many professors and a professor may have secondary affiliation besides their primary affiliation. Additionally, graduate students who work with multiple or one of these professors are associated with the professors by a relationship called advisor. The graduate students have total partition in this relationship, and their graduation dates are included in the entity. This may help to predict if a professor is looking for new graduate student candidates. More details are in the ER Diagram.